so all the children of Israel came
[Music]
Seba as well as from the land of Gilead
and the congregation gathered together
as one man before the Lord at Misbah and
the leaders of all the people all the
tribes of Israel presented themselves in
the Assembly of the people of God four
hundred thousand foot soldiers who drew
the sword now the children of Benjamin
heard that the children of Israel had
gone up to Misbah and the children of
Israel said tell us how did this wicked
deed happen so the Levite the husband of
the woman who was murdered answered
my concubine and I went into Gibeah
which belongs to Benjamin to spend the
night and the men in Gibeah rose against
me and surrounded the house at night
because of me they intended to kill me
but instead they ravished my concubine
so that she died I took hold of my
concubine cut her in pieces and sent her
throughout all the territory of the
inheritance of Israel because they
committed lewdness and outrage in Israel
look all of you are children of Israel
give your advice and counsel here and
now so all the people arose as one man
none of us will go to his tent nor will
any turn back to his house but now this
is the thing which we will do to give
you up we will go up against it by lot
we will take 10 men out of every hundred
throughout all the tribes of Israel a
hundred out of every thousand and a
thousand out of every ten thousand to
make provisions for the people that when
they come to Gibeah in benjamin they may
repay all the vileness that they have
done in israel so all the men of israel
were gathered against the city united
together as one man and the tribes of
israel sent men through all the tribe of
benjamin saying what is this wickedness
that has occurred among you
now therefore deliver up the men the
perverted men who were in Gibeah that we
may put them to death and remove the
evil from Israel
but the children of Benjamin would not
listen to the voice of their brethren
the children of Israel instead the
children of Benjamin gathered together
from their cities to Gibeah to go to
battle against the children of Israel
and from their cities at that time the
children of Benjamin numbered 26
thousand men who drew the sword
besides the inhabitants of Gibeah who
numbered seven hundred select men among
all this people were seven hundred
select men who were left-handed everyone
could sling a stone at a hair's breadth
and not miss now besides Benjamin the
men of Israel numbered four hundred
thousand men who drew the sword all of
these were men of war then the children
of Israel arose and went up to the house
of God to inquire of God which of us
shall go up first to battle against the
children of Benjamin the Lord said Judah
first so the children of Israel rose in
the morning and encamped against Gibeah
and the men of Israel went out to battle
against Benjamin and the men of Israel
put themselves in battle array to fight
against them at Gibeah then the children
of Benjamin came out of Gibeah
and on that day cut down to the ground
twenty-two thousand men of the
Israelites and the people that is the
men of Israel encouraged themselves and
again formed the battle line at the
place where they had put themselves in
array on the first day then the children
of Israel went up and wept before the
Lord until evening and asked counsel of
the Lord shall I again draw near for
battle against the children of my
brother Benjamin and the Lord said go up
against him so the children of Israel
approached the children of Benjamin on
the second day and Benjamin went out
against them from Gibeah on the second
day and cut down to the ground 18,000
more of the children of Israel all these
drew the sword then all the children of
Israel that is all the people went up
and came to the house of God and wept
they sat there before the Lord and
fasted that day until evening
and they offered burnt offerings and
peace offerings before the Lord so the
children of Israel inquired of the Lord
the Ark of the Covenant of God was there
in those days and Phinehas the son of
Eleazar the son of Aaron stood the fort
in those days
sella yet again go out to battle against
the children of my brother Benjamin or
shall I cease and the Lord said go up
for tomorrow I will deliver them into
your hand then Israel set men in ambush
all around Gibeah and the children of
Israel went up against the children of
Benjamin on the third day and put
themselves in battle array against
Gibeah as at the other temples so the
children of Benjamin went out against
the people and were drawn away from the
city
they began to strike down and kill some
of the people as of the other times in
the highway one of which goes up to
Bethel and the other to Gibeah and in
the field about 30 men of Israel and the
children of Benjamin said they are
defeated before us as at first but the
children of Israel said let us flee and
draw them away from the city to the
highways so all the men of Israel rose
from their place and put themselves in
battle array at bale tamer then Israel's
men in ambush burst forth from their
position in the plain of qiba and ten
thousand select men from all Israel came
against Gibeon and the battle is fierce
but the Benjamites did not know that
disaster was upon the Lord defeated
Benjamin
before Israel and the children of Israel
destroyed that day 25100 Benjamites all
these through the soul so the children
of Benjamin saw that they were defeated
the man of Israel had given ground to
the Benjamites because they relied on
the men in ambush whom they had set
against Gibeah and the men in ambush
quickly rushed upon Gibeah the men in
ambush spread out and struck the whole
city with the edge of the sword now the
appointed signal between the men of
Israel and the men in ambush was that
they would make a great cloud of smoke
rise up from the city whereupon the men
of Israel would turn in battle now
Benjamin had begun to strike and kill
about thirty of the men of Israel for
they said surely they are defeated
before us as in the first battle but
when the cloud began to rise from the
city in the column of smoke Benjamites
looked behind them there was the whole
city go having smoke to heaven
and when the men of Israel turned back
the men of Benjamin panicked for they
saw that disaster had come upon them
therefore they turned their backs before
the man of Israel in the direction of
the wilderness but the battle overtook
them and whoever came out of the cities
they destroyed in their midst they
surrounded the Benjamites chase them and
easily trampled them down as far as the
front of Guinea toward the east
and 18,000 men of Benjamin fell all
these were men of valor then they turned
and fled toward the wilderness to the
rock of rim and they cut down 5000 of
the momma high waves then they pursued
them relentlessly up to guidin and
killed 2,000 of them so all who fell of
Benjamin that day were 25,000 men who
drew the sword all these were men of
valour but 600 men turned and fled
toward the wilderness to the rock of
women and they stayed at the rock of
remin for four months and the men of
Israel turned back against the children
of Benjamin and struck them down at the
edge of the sword from every city men
and beasts all who were found also set
fire to all the cities they came to